README.md, before:

# Orthanc PACS with SLIM viewer

This repository combines 
- [Orthanc PACS](https://orthanc.uclouvain.be/)
- [SLIM Viewer](https://github.com/ImagingDataCommons/slim)
using DICOM web service as communication interface. 

## Quick Start

### PACS & Viewer

Simply execute the ``docker-compose.yml``:
```
docker compose build
docker compose run -d
```
``-d`` runs the services in *detached* mode in background. 

### Dicomizer

To add new WSI to the Orthanc database and also convert from vendor-specific formats to DICOM, Orthanc offers a command line tool: **OrthancWSIDicomizer**
For scalability, it can be executed as docker microservice. Therefore, the Orthanc docker image has to be extended by the *OpenSlide* library and its dependencies provided in the Orthanc ``Dockerfile``. 

Simply run:
```
docker build -t custom-orthanc-plugins:latest orthanc
```

After that, the Dicomier can be executed in its own microservice using paths to:
1. Path to WSI file (e.g. ``NDPI``, ``SVS``)
2. Path to WSI metainformation as ``JSON``
See [Orthanc documentation](https://orthanc.uclouvain.be/book/plugins/wsi.html#command-line-tools) for further information.

```
sudo docker run -t -i --rm \
  --network slim-orthanc_default \
  --link=slim-orthanc-orthanc-1:orthanc \
  --entrypoint=OrthancWSIDicomizer \
  -v <path/to/wsi.wsi-ending>:/tmp/source.<wsi-ending>:ro \
  -v <path/to/dataset.json>:/tmp/dataset.json:ro \
  custom-orthanc-plugins:latest \
  --username=orthanc --password=orthanc --orthanc=http://orthanc:8042/ \
  --openslide=/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libopenslide.so.0 \
  --dataset=/tmp/dataset.json /tmp/source.<wsi-ending>
```

## Database

A DICOM database is attached as docker volume in ``docker-compose.yml``

## Update SLIM

If a new version of the viewer is published, most of the folder can be changed with the new files. 
However, for building a docker image, the Nginx configuration establishing the connection between Orthanc and Slim also has to be stored in the viewer directory: ``slim/nginx.config`` and has to be pursued.

Commit message:

fixed Dicomizer bug not using openslide

README.md, after:

# Orthanc PACS with SLIM viewer

This repository combines 
- [Orthanc PACS](https://orthanc.uclouvain.be/)
- [SLIM Viewer](https://github.com/ImagingDataCommons/slim)
using DICOM web service as communication interface. 

## Quick Start

### PACS & Viewer

Simply execute the ``docker-compose.yml``:
```
docker compose build
docker compose run -d
```
``-d`` runs the services in *detached* mode in background. 

### Dicomizer

To add new WSI to the Orthanc database and also convert from vendor-specific formats to DICOM, Orthanc offers a command line tool: **OrthancWSIDicomizer**
For scalability, it can be executed as docker microservice. Therefore, the Orthanc docker image has to be extended by the *OpenSlide* library and its dependencies provided in the Orthanc ``Dockerfile``. 

Simply run:
```
docker build -t custom-orthanc-plugins:latest orthanc
```

After that, the Dicomier can be executed in its own microservice using paths to:
1. Path to WSI file (e.g. ``NDPI``, ``SVS``)
2. Path to WSI metainformation as ``JSON``
See [Orthanc documentation](https://orthanc.uclouvain.be/book/plugins/wsi.html#command-line-tools) for further information.

```
sudo docker run -t -i --rm \
  --network slim-orthanc_default \
  --link=slim-orthanc-orthanc-1:orthanc \
  --entrypoint=OrthancWSIDicomizer \
  -v <path/to/wsi.wsi-ending>:/tmp/source.<wsi-ending>:ro \
  -v <path/to/dataset.json>:/tmp/dataset.json:ro \
  custom-orthanc-plugins:latest \
  --username=orthanc --password=orthanc --orthanc=http://orthanc:8042/ \
  --openslide=/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libopenslide.so.0 \
  --dataset=/tmp/dataset.json \
  --force-openslide 1 /tmp/source.<wsi-ending>
```

## Database

A DICOM SQL database is attached as docker volume.
Currently, a local folder is included by a given path which can be changed in ``docker-compose.yml``:

```
volumes:
  orthanc-storage:
    driver: local
    driver_opts:
      type: none
      device: /var/lib/orthanc/db-v6  # <-- change path to SQL DB
```

## Update SLIM

If a new version of the viewer is published, most of the folder can be changed with the new files. 
However, for building a docker image, the Nginx configuration establishing the connection between Orthanc and Slim also has to be stored in the viewer directory: ``slim/nginx.config`` and has to be pursued.
